Alright, in this one we are going to
take a look at many to many
relationships and I'm going to show you
how to set up a bi-directional many to many
relationship in JPA. Now I've gone in and
updated our little ERD diagram there in
JDL Studio and what I want to see was a
bi-directional relationship between
Recipe and Category. So I've now gone and
added that and you can see we have a
line going from Recipe to Category and
there's a star underscore star meaning
many to many. And we also have a line
going back from Category to Recipe and
up towards the top there by Recipe, you
can see that also has a star underscore
star for a many-to-many relationship. So
we can have many recipes pointing to
many categories and many categories
belonging to many recipes. So what we
want to do is go in and map that now and
jump over to IntelliJ. And I've gone in
and I've created the entity class
Category already and now it has a
property on it, private Set of Recipe of
recipes and we want to come in and use
the many-to-many annotation on that. And
let's also update Recipe to have
a Category. So I'm going to come down
here under notes and I'm also going to
use a Set, collect categories and shoot
down to the bottom here. I'm going to add
in the getters and setters for it.
sounds like I have some Thunder outside.
I'm sorry if that's getting picked up by
the microphone. That's summertime in Florida. And I'm
also going to annotate this as a
ManyToMany but our relationship isn't
done there. So I'm going to show you what
happens in Hibernate right now if we let
it go and create the database schema for
us. So I'm going to start up Spring Boot.
And Spring Boot, it did start up normally. We can see down there at the bottom
Tomcat started up on port 8080 and
because we are using Spring Boot, we are
going to get an H2 database console and
just as a reminder the default JDBC URL
when you're using Spring Boot unless you
overwrite it, is jdbc:h2:mem:
testdb. Now I do see people having
problems with this at times where they
have something else in there and I think
this is saved in a cookie somewhere on
your system. So if you change it once
then you're fine but if you have a
problem and you don't see your database
then double check your JDBC URL because a
lot of times if you have that, you're
going to see a different database. The
way H2 works is it creates the database
based on the URL when you're doing in
memory database. So I'm going to go in
and connect. We'll try that one more time and
now we can see our database got got
created but we can see that we have a
CATEGORY_RECIPES and a RECIPE_CATEGORIES. So we have two different
tables there and that's because we
created two relationships but we did not
configure them. So this is definitely not
a behavior that we want. We can do this
in one table. We only need one table to
support this and the reason this is
happening is because we didn't give
Hibernate enough information and it just
went out and created the different
relationships for us but we can use the
same and we should use the same set
because this is kind of ugly right here.
So I'm going to come back over to
IntelliJ
and I'm going to stop Spring Boot
and we can close that window. Now what I
want to do is specify a join table and
this is probably one of the more complex
things you're going to do in JPA mapping. And I want to name it. We'll call it
recipe category. We only get one. Now
we're going to specify join columns and
the convention that Hibernate is using, see
if I still have that up. So it's going to
do, what we want to do is recipe category
and we want to do recipe ID. So you can
see we have category recipes, recipe
categories is changing the second one to
plural but in both cases we are getting
table name underscore ID and that is a
default naming convention that hibernate
is going to use to generate the tables
for us. So we're going to follow that
same naming convention. So we want you to
do recipe ID and category ID. So that's
specifying the join column. Next, we need
to do the opposite way and use the
inverseJoinColumns. Again we need to
use the JoinColumn annotation and this is
going to be for the inverse direction.
And in this case, I'm going to specify
singular on these because we don't need
plurals in any case. So now we're
saying I want a table recipe category
and from this way of the relationship
we're going to use recipe ID and coming
back, we're going to have category ID. So this is setting up that mapping. Now
when we really run it we're going to see
a much different view. I got a mistake
there.
I miss the name value there so now let's
try that again. You see that started up
normally. Come back over here and let's
do a refresh here. Connect. Now I have
CATEGORY_RECIPES but I still have that
other one and I overlooked one property.
So I didn't do the other side. So over
here I need to tell it mappedBy. And we can
see that Hibernate did restart there
because I did change it and we do have
Spring Boot developer tools running. So
this is going to restart for us and let's
go and take a look. I'm going to do a
refresh. Now let's do a connect and
that's what I wanted. So now I have one
table RECIPE_CATEGORY, so rather than
having two tables. Let's come back over
here and we'll step through this one
more time. So what I did is I created a
many-to-many relationship and I'm saying
this is mappedBy categories and this is
going to be on the join table from that
set. So from the other side of the
relationship and that categories is
going to be this property name. Now on
this side, I told a join able to name
the table as recipe category which gives
us this value here. That's why it's named
recipe category, and now I set up to join
columns so from this side of the
relationship, we are going to have a join
column called recipe id and on the other
side for the categories, we're going to
have category id. So it's important to
recognize it. Let's do a little example
here. So if I called that recipe category
foo,
call this bar, we can see that Spring
Boot is restarting pretty quickly there.
That's dev tools, the Spring Boot dev
tools in action. Now I come back over
here we will see that the tables have been
renamed. So I come back and connect and
we can see that the table is now RECIPE_CATEGORY_FOO and we have recipe_id_bar.
So that's clearly just demonstration
purposes. That's not what we want in real
life. I'm just showing you how these are
related to the SQL that is getting
generated for the tables underneath the
covers and we can see that this is going
to restart and it goes again. Let's just
refresh and I'll show you how those have
changed back. So we are now back to
recipe_category and with this recipe_id
and we got rid of the foo bar attributes. So this is probably one of the more
complex things and that you're going to
do in JPA mappings and I'll be honest
when I need to set up a many to many, I
need to go out and google this as a
refresher because honestly you don't
see that many to many relationships in
when you're working as a Spring
developer. This is something that you're
come going to encounter every month or
two months or so. So you don't see it
that much or that often. So don't feel
bad if you have to go out and google it
but do be aware of the functionality and
how you have to set up those
relationships. I am aware of that but I
will go out and google it just to
refresh my memory and get it set up
properly.